# Teaching-Apps-MacOSX

Interactive Teaching Applications, designed to illustate the underlying mathematics of a number of common Electrophysiological techniques. The apps are focused to benefit students in a number of disiplines including Physiology, Human Health and Disease, Neuroscience and BioEngineering. The apps provide an interactive way of processing and analysing electrophysiological signals and also give insight into some  impairments associated with a number of common neurological disorders. 

The interactive teaching apps were developed by Michael Broderick and Bahmna Nasseroleslami on behalf of the Dean's Awards for Teaching and Innovation. The development is a result of collaborative efforts internal and external to TCD. Developers received data from the University of Victoria, Canada. There are 4 apps in total. 2 are currently available and 2 remain under development.

EEG: In this app, a user learns about a number of common techniques involved in EEG processing including baseline referencing, common average referencing, filtering and averaging epochs. The user is able to analyse the signals produced in different electrodes placed over the scalp and must use the processing tecniques to produce clear and meaningful signal. 

EMG: This apps teaches users about the effects of the H-reflex and M-Wave on EMG recordings. Users are able to manually adjust the stimulus intensity and view the effect these changes have on the soleus muscle at rest and in contraction. The app displays animations of the paths the physiological impulses take from a full view and individual motor pathway level. 